LICENSE.txt
MANIFEST.in
README.md
setup.cfg
setup.py
uwsift/__init__.py
uwsift/__main__.py
uwsift/common.py
uwsift/queue.py
uwsift/satpy_compat.py
uwsift/version.py
uwsift.egg-info/PKG-INFO
uwsift.egg-info/SOURCES.txt
uwsift.egg-info/dependency_links.txt
uwsift.egg-info/entry_points.txt
uwsift.egg-info/not-zip-safe
uwsift.egg-info/requires.txt
uwsift.egg-info/top_level.txt
uwsift/control/__init__.py
uwsift/control/doc_ws_as_timeline_scene.py
uwsift/control/file_behaviors.py
uwsift/control/layer_tree.py
uwsift/control/rgb_behaviors.py
uwsift/data/shadedrelief.jpg
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/Cloud Amount Default.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/Cloud Top Height.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/Low Cloud Base.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/Rain Rate.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/prob_severe.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/GOESR-L2/ACTP.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/GOESR-L2/ADP.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/GOESR-L2/CSM.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/GOESR-L2/Dust.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/GOESR-L2/FSC.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/GOESR-L2/GOES-SST-35.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/GOESR-L2/RRQPE.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/GOESR-L2/RRQPE1.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/GOESR-L2/Smoke.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/GOESR-L2/VTRSB.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/GOESR-L2/color-cape-10.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/GOESR-L2/color-li-10.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/GOESR-L2/color-pw10-10.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/GOESR-L2/color-pw8-10.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/IR/CIRA (IR Default).cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/IR/IR WV.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/IR/IR_Color_Clouds_Summer.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/IR/IR_Color_Clouds_Winter.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/IR/Rainbow_11_bit.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/IR/WV_Dry_Yellow.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/IR/dust_and_moisture_split_window.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/IR/enhanced-rainbow-11.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/IR/enhanced-rainbow_warmer_yellow.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/IR/fire_detection_3.9.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/IR/fogdiff_blue.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/IR/ramsdis_IR_12bit.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/IR/ramsdis_WV_12bit.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/Lifted Index/Lifted Index - New CIMSS Table.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/Lifted Index/Lifted Index Default.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/Precip/Blended Total Precip Water.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/Precip/Percent of Normal TPW.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/Precip/Precip Water - New CIMSS Table.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/Precip/Precip Water - Polar.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/Precip/Precip Water Default.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/Skin Temp/Skin Temp - New CIMSS Table.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/Skin Temp/Skin Temp Default.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/VIS/CA (Low Light Vis).cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/VIS/Linear.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/VIS/VIS_gray_sq-root-12.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/VIS/ZA (Vis Default).cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/WV/Gray Scale Water Vapor.cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/WV/NSSL VAS (WV Alternate).cmap
uwsift/data/colormaps/OAX/GOES-R/WV/SLC WV.cmap
uwsift/data/fonts/Andale Mono.ttf
uwsift/data/grib_definitions/grib2/localConcepts/kwbc/cfName.def
uwsift/data/grib_definitions/grib2/localConcepts/kwbc/modelName.def
uwsift/data/grib_definitions/grib2/localConcepts/kwbc/name.def
uwsift/data/grib_definitions/grib2/localConcepts/kwbc/paramId.def
uwsift/data/grib_definitions/grib2/localConcepts/kwbc/shortName.def
uwsift/data/grib_definitions/grib2/localConcepts/kwbc/units.def
uwsift/data/ne_110m_admin_0_countries/ne_110m_admin_0_countries.README.html
uwsift/data/ne_110m_admin_0_countries/ne_110m_admin_0_countries.VERSION.txt
uwsift/data/ne_110m_admin_0_countries/ne_110m_admin_0_countries.dbf
uwsift/data/ne_110m_admin_0_countries/ne_110m_admin_0_countries.prj
uwsift/data/ne_110m_admin_0_countries/ne_110m_admin_0_countries.shp
uwsift/data/ne_110m_admin_0_countries/ne_110m_admin_0_countries.shx
uwsift/data/ne_50m_admin_0_countries/ne_50m_admin_0_countries.README.html
uwsift/data/ne_50m_admin_0_countries/ne_50m_admin_0_countries.VERSION.txt
uwsift/data/ne_50m_admin_0_countries/ne_50m_admin_0_countries.dbf
uwsift/data/ne_50m_admin_0_countries/ne_50m_admin_0_countries.prj
uwsift/data/ne_50m_admin_0_countries/ne_50m_admin_0_countries.shp
uwsift/data/ne_50m_admin_0_countries/ne_50m_admin_0_countries.shx
uwsift/data/ne_50m_admin_1_states_provinces_lakes/ne_50m_admin_1_states_provinces_lakes.README.html
uwsift/data/ne_50m_admin_1_states_provinces_lakes/ne_50m_admin_1_states_provinces_lakes.VERSION.txt
uwsift/data/ne_50m_admin_1_states_provinces_lakes/ne_50m_admin_1_states_provinces_lakes.dbf
uwsift/data/ne_50m_admin_1_states_provinces_lakes/ne_50m_admin_1_states_provinces_lakes.prj
uwsift/data/ne_50m_admin_1_states_provinces_lakes/ne_50m_admin_1_states_provinces_lakes.shp
uwsift/data/ne_50m_admin_1_states_provinces_lakes/ne_50m_admin_1_states_provinces_lakes.shx
uwsift/model/__init__.py
uwsift/model/composite_recipes.py
uwsift/model/document.py
uwsift/model/layer.py
uwsift/model/shapes.py
uwsift/project/__init__.py
uwsift/project/ahi2gtiff.py
uwsift/project/ahi2merc.py
uwsift/project/geocat2merc.py
uwsift/project/organize_data_bands.py
uwsift/project/organize_data_topics.py
uwsift/tests/__init__.py
uwsift/tests/conftest.py
uwsift/tests/timeline.py
uwsift/tests/view/__init__.py
uwsift/tests/view/test_export_image.py
uwsift/tests/view/test_open_file_wizard.py
uwsift/tests/view/test_tile_calculator.py
uwsift/tests/workspace/__init__.py
uwsift/tests/workspace/test_algebraic.py
uwsift/tests/workspace/test_importer.py
uwsift/ui/__init__.py
uwsift/ui/change_colormap_dialog.ui
uwsift/ui/change_colormap_dialog_ui.py
uwsift/ui/config_rgb_layer.ui
uwsift/ui/config_rgb_layer_ui.py
uwsift/ui/create_algebraic_dialog.ui
uwsift/ui/create_algebraic_dialog_ui.py
uwsift/ui/custom_widgets.py
uwsift/ui/export_image_dialog.ui
uwsift/ui/export_image_dialog_ui.py
uwsift/ui/open_cache_dialog.ui
uwsift/ui/open_cache_dialog_ui.py
uwsift/ui/open_file_wizard.ui
uwsift/ui/open_file_wizard_ui.py
uwsift/ui/pov_main.ui
uwsift/ui/pov_main_ui.py
uwsift/util/__init__.py
uwsift/util/default_paths.py
uwsift/view/__init__.py
uwsift/view/cameras.py
uwsift/view/colormap.py
uwsift/view/colormap_dialogs.py
uwsift/view/colormap_editor.py
uwsift/view/create_algebraic.py
uwsift/view/export_image.py
uwsift/view/layer_details.py
uwsift/view/open_file_wizard.py
uwsift/view/probes.py
uwsift/view/rgb_config.py
uwsift/view/scene_graph.py
uwsift/view/texture_atlas.py
uwsift/view/tile_calculator.py
uwsift/view/transform.py
uwsift/view/visuals.py
uwsift/view/timeline/__init__.py
uwsift/view/timeline/common.py
uwsift/view/timeline/items.py
uwsift/view/timeline/scene.py
uwsift/workspace/__init__.py
uwsift/workspace/collector.py
uwsift/workspace/goesr_pug.py
uwsift/workspace/guidebook.py
uwsift/workspace/importer.py
uwsift/workspace/matrix.py
uwsift/workspace/metadatabase.py
uwsift/workspace/workspace.py